Okay,
we are back live.
A few things to work on today.
I think that we're going to start off
with the uh the world model setup that I
worked on yesterday.
We're going to eliminate a few possible
sources of error and then we're going to
get some conclusive data on whether this
approach makes any sense or not.
That's the goal.
Yeah, I should be able to here swap
this data for the real policy data. No.
How's your autocomplete work? It's uh
Super Maven as a Neoim plugin.
It's just like a really stupid model
that's really fast.
This is uh a fairly different I don't
know when the last time you checked this
thing it was but um we have a somewhat
different approach I would say.
Two days. A lot changes in two days. Do
we have a new
It's inspired by Dreamer and Mr. Q and a
few of the other things I've looked at.
Um,
the goal is to fix all the stability
issues. And also, pretty much
I think that the way that I've set this
up, if this doesn't work, then like
almost nothing should work, if that
makes sense.
Like if I can't make this work, it's
going to call into question a lot of the
literature
Congrats, man. Has
there been anything uh
what's the state of that environment?
Has there been any changes? Is uh does
it need me to like review anything on
it?
I think you had some small things,
right?
Oh, Ray
the drawing of this. Yeah.
This is convert 10
mini map. Very nice.
Thank you.
I've been just stuck on all the science
side for the last like two plus weeks.
Convert.
Have to look at more PRs, I'm sure. But
I've been stuck on research for a bit.
Have you seen Prime Intellect? It's LLM
stuff, isn't it, Satcha?
Sorry, research is cooler. I mean, I
should be reviewing PRs, man. It's just
I have a very hard time context
switching and I'm kind of just like
in the mindset of just um getting this
whole thing done as much as possible. I'
I'm have like a few be business meetings
on the calendar over these few weeks and
that's about it.
I mean, my whole like my whole
schedule's basically just been
restructured around like letting me do
this type of stuff with well having a
clear head.
I've pretty much just been doing a ton
of exercise, doing my research, doing
whatever minimal business stuff, and
like that's it.
I PRed my uh my 10k this morning. Well,
not PR, I suppose. Best in this training
block by um
like three minutes or whatever.
Uh
while being beat to hell on a freaking
1500 calorie cut or whatever the hell it
is.
Ah, okay. This is interesting here,
right?
Yeah, this is very interesting because
this
Yeah, this means there's something like
super wrong.
We're going to have to run this for
longer to be sure.
Yeah, LM based stuff is kind of
whatever.
I like I really just don't care that
much about what's being done with um
like LLM.
and artillery 3D popular to Ross.
Isn't Ross like the slowest piece of
[ __ ] ever? Or am I or am I thinking of
something else, too? Robotic operating
system. What is that actually used for?
But companies love it.
Companies love stuff that solves their
problems.
just a communication. I see. Well, then
that's just like if you just did
deploying stuff that's not
have to go nuts over that.
This is like this is interesting though
because I'm doing
I'm doing RL on the real data.
Ah, hang on. Wait. Maybe it's because of
the crazy entropy
because now it is learning. And this is
learning with like the same pattern as
uh with the world model, right? where it
just takes forever to start learning.
Get myself a cup of coffee while this
finishes. Hello is welcome. Go hit up a
cup of coffee.
Yeah, I'm starting to get burnt. I
literally forgot that I just gotten
myself an ice coffee and forgotten to
finish it on the table.
We're good for a bit. What are you
building?
This is live reinforcement learning
research. I am working on an algorithm
that enables uh a neural net to interact
with a simulation, hallucinate a whole
bunch of about what it thinks could
happen in that simulation and learn
based on those hallucinations.
That's the best highle description I can
give without knowing if you're familiar
with this type of work or not.
Technical version of this is I'm trying
to do
um I'm working on some stuff with like
stable world models combined with on
policy RL.
All right.
So we can hypothesize
maybe it is the loss that is wrong.
If you want demos like way more tangible
demos there are a whole bunch of games
on puffer.ai where you can watch the
neural nets that we've trained uh
playing them in your browser
not trained the
supervised pre-trained. So the problem
with that satch is you need an expert
model, right? Because you can't train
the world model on random samples from
the environment.
It won't see any of what actually
happens in the environment.
And if you're going to if you have an
expert, just do behavioral cloning or
whatever, right?
Okay, so this is interesting.
I had thought that the entropy crash was
something
relating to the world model,
but apparently not. See, entropy has
crashed here.
Okay,
let's
go mess with that.
blogs or resources. Yes, I actually have
Hang on.
The stream is not primarily educational.
It's mostly um watch you know research
being done live
but I do have
some intro articles that I've written
for people in this space. I'll link this
one. This is my more specialized one.
And I got to refresh the chat. Plugin
broke.
This is the more specialized one.
There's also uh advice, general advice
for programming in ML1 as well.
Has all of my best information and tips
on how to get involved in this stuff.
Also, this is all open source work. Had
many people go from not knowing anything
about this space to being productive
contributors to the research.
is also kind of fun because you just a
lot of it's like you build low-level
games and you actually advance research
in the process of doing that.
So where
here right
nice setup. Thank you.
Well, this is not the fun setup.
This is the uh the scuffed
green screen setup. the fun setup where
that I miss very much.
with all the servers that I'm using and
such.
The only thing that's bad about that
spot is it doesn't have as good running
as I have here.
That is the uh the lab,
the puffer training facility. We have
all the hardware for training the agents
and then we've all we've got the uh the
hardware for training me.
Discord g/puffer,
Hi. There's a bug.
Hang on.
Auxiliary.
What do you mean? Satcha
buffer
387.
this should probably I think I mentioned
this before. So, I think that this
should be deleted.
I'd have to rerun quite a few tests
because yeah, the whole idea of this is
to give you a fresh advantage update
estimate.
Um, so I think you should just be able
to delete this, but I like this is one
of those things where I'd actually have
to run a ton of experiments to check if
it makes a big difference or not. Right,
Tim?
They're like starter guides. There's all
sorts of stuff. Pretty much there's
enough information for you out there to
be able to build like your own Sims from
scratch, provided that you have at least
done any amount of low-level dev. like
having seen it at le
one course is plenty.
No, Tim, you're right on that. It's just
um it's like one of the things where I'd
have to actually put in quite a bit of
of looking at it or not even looking at
of experiments.
I don't know. Maybe we delete that line
and everything's just way better. I
don't know.
well, at least at least it's not like
we're just screwed in the world model
doesn't work, eh?
work with unsloths.
No, we have our own stuff. Isn't Unsloth
like an LLM thing?
This is not LLM RL. We do everything but
LLMs.
This is stuff you can actually run on
like your home PC and actually train
agents in like seconds.
So Satcha, what I'm doing here to be
clear, this is a test, a sanity check. I
replace the world model with samples
from the real environment. So like you
agree this should absolutely work if I
have this set up right.
Like you'd agree that this should
absolutely work if I have this set up,
right?
So if it's failing the sanity then I
have some other thing screwy
try getting rid of this clamp.
Yeah. Okay. So, this is a total mess.
The entropy is no longer crashing, but
it's a total mess.
Ppp
the llama's um just uh implementation of
a language model. This is high
performance simulation
uh vectorzation or multipprocessing for
thousands of environments.
um a high performance reinforcement
learning trainer for small models which
has all sorts of different optimization
problems than large models have
as well as our own algorithmic research
in a variety of different areas.
Um,
I mean, I guess there are some checks I
should run.
Yeah. So, this is the full puffer,
right? This is the full puffer training
where it just insta solves.
Okay. So, we have that. Now,
let me get this right. So, it should be
messed up some params.
I'll join you is pretty interesting.
Absolutely.
Aren't almost every
Oh, partially observable. Yes.
Something. So, pom dp is like it's
presented in RL as like this big scary
problem. That's the advanced thing. But
in practice, it's like every problem
ever. It's just anytime you don't have
full information about the Hey,
Funny that that actually does slightly
worse, but whatever.
Can tolerate that for now.
You be familiar with simulation or game
engine? No, cuz it's all from scratch.
Like all of our M's are written from
scratch. If you just check the docs,
you'll see like the sample code is not
that crazy for a lot of these.
Not knowing control theory and pom d
pom do what?
Knowing pom dp. Yeah. So that doesn't
make any bloody sense. Like knowing pom
dp doesn't mean [ __ ] anything.
because the statement just has no
meaning.
Okay, so I fixed that problem and now we
still have the entropy
uh what's the branch?
I mean, I can commit this latest little
bit. Hang on.
So let me let me explain the setup uh
Satcha. So basically what I did is I
have copy pasted
the uh the training code from the main
puffer and I've put it into the loop
that I was using for the world model and
somehow stuff is broken.
So yeah, something is weird.
No, it's separate world model. Like
separate WM or whatever.
They're like a half dozen different.
Yes, separate. Separate WM. They're half
dozen different branches. I mean, more
at this point. I've been working for a
while on trying to make this stuff work.
Okay. Interesting. So this
this actually produces the same
behavior.
We're normalizing advantages
is pretty normal.
like without norming advantages it's a
huge huge difference my experiments at
least
and it's I think that we just have um
like hypers optimized to a different
regime
Well, I this is kind of a mandatory
thing, right? We need in order to have
any hope of having this thing work, we
need to have a version of our main
trainer that works with uh data the way
that we expect to get it from the world
model, right? Because if our RL loop
doesn't work on the uh the data in that
format, there's no way it's going to
work on the world model,
We'll have to fiddle with this a little
bit.
lot of interesting clamping.
Uh, do you mean like the X? Do you mean
in the RL world model thing or other?
Like otherwise
missed it. What was wrong? This is not
the world model yet, Tim. This is us
just getting like a reasonably saying
hypers for
um the setting that we're actually going
to need to use for the RL world model
terminals X. So, the reason for that,
Satcha, uh this was experimental. So
when you roll out the world model for a
full 64 steps, it's going to diverge and
it's going to nan, but it's because the
errors accumulate. And if you clamp,
then numerically you basically prevent
that from happening.
There's a footnote I think on that as
well. So okay, this actually works,
right? This actually works. It's
reasonably fast. So what I'm going to do
is I'm going to make this
and then we're going to see if we can
get this to work with the world model
now.
Another another chance.
Yeah,
this is considered a chance for me. I'm
very stubborn.
I'm very very stubborn.
I mean, literally my outside of like
some business and stuff, the last
two and a half weeks of my life have
been get up, run, lift weights, get
food, work on this stuff, think about
this stuff a bunch, get dinner, go to
bed.
an LL for X in terms
you mean instead of MSE.
Yeah, you're right, Zacha. But I like
we're not at the point where that's the
problem yet, if that makes sense.
Like we're not yet at the point where
that can even be the limiting factor.
Uh, this is no longer exactly dreamer.
This is a I mean, for all intents and
purposes, this is a new algorithm.
It's semi-dreamer inspired, but only
very loosely.
I don't even necessarily want to give
the credit to dreamer inspired cuz it's
like so far off.
I mean, actually, come to think of it,
the only similarity of Dreamer is like
using like training in a world model.
That's pretty much where the
similarities stop.
Um
you kind of are in dreamer as well. So
the main difference is like you're doing
on policy RL then you're training a
purely supervised world model that is
fully separate from the actor and then
you're going to attempt to do additional
RL on the imagined rollouts. That is the
algorithm.
Also this gives us a sample efficient
solve right there just with this these
params I randomly came on. So this is
kind of decent.
Get rid of mini batching. Oh, I to get
rid of mini batching at this stage.
So the mini batch is the full batch
under the config that I just wrote.
Satcha.
See if this continues to learn.
Chat does me bad a bunch of times.
I honestly don't know if it's X eating
the messages. I think Twitch is slightly
better about not dropping them. But
yeah, there's like some rate limiting
thing in where when people type too many
messages, it eats some of them. or if it
thinks that you've typed links or like
profanity, it sometimes eats them. I
literally don't have anything enabled to
do this, right? It just does it. If
anybody knows a better reream, I'm all
ears.
interesting.
Very interesting.
I think I should just take the training
loop.
Redo.
Let me redo it fully.
We're going to get this to uh
get this to work.
And then basically the goal here is to
have an experiment
such that um
like if anything in world modeling is
good and works it will be this
if this fails there will have to be a
principled reason for the failure that
we can measure.
Uh, and it would essentially
for this to fail,
it would basically have to be the case
that the whole world modeling thing was
just a hype whatever and that you can
like essentially like a bunch of the
other methods were just poorly optimized
and could probably do just as well or
better. It would be uh a pretty big
thing for this to not work in my mind.
Yes, this works.
Super clean.
So instead of doing
the real policy
Okay,
this uh
this still runs right
Ah, I see why.
I know. I see why.
We still have a little work to do.
Go away, bot.
It's cool though. We actually I think I
see a path to progress here.
We are going to be the algorithm of all
algorithms. It will be good.
We shall simply solve all of the
problems
and I shall rest.
I'm preparing this thing for the uh
world model data.
So this still works because of course it
works
fully on policy
on policy RL is like the thing that
works
else actually seems work
if we change
Yeah, Jess.
It's a bit rough.
Fully works.
I also have a uh
got Cal
believe I have a 300 PM today.
I got a half hour at 3. I will actually
be back after that though
unless I don't know
things come up
be able to be
actually we're getting to being like 33
mil on solve is good.
Uh next will be
Okay. So we have the version where
we literally just write out
the loop.
Okay. Now we do,
now we do this version.
We put this
this block
We see whether this works with fresh
data
which it should it should be identical.
Okay.
Now we see if this is stable
and if this is stable
then we can slot in the world model.
This is less stable somehow. That's
weird.
Sure. I'm going to run this. Use the
rest room to make sure.
Research is slow, but we're making
progress.
interesting. This one doesn't fully work
either,
but it does fully work if we do the
other one.
Really?
This is just being
me having to be very very careful with
my baselines. Yeah.
To make sure that we have unquestionably
correct experiments.
fact I probably have that as an option.
20 plus houring plus hours of suffering
to success. Cool.
I mean honestly it's been a lot more
than 20. 20 would be a bargain if I get
this to work.
Yeah. Okay. So, this real data just
works way better for some reason.
all this gives you is what this gives
you log new
log Rob
I mean the amount of like I've done
hundreds and thou like hundreds and
sometimes like thousands of hours in my
PhD on fiddly things.
My patience has grown much thinner since
then. Admittedly, I can still do this.
I've built myself a good enough platform
that my experiments run so much faster.
Even this 600k SPS. Go on, go find me a
library that gets you 600k SPS. Even
though this is like, I don't know, 5x
slower than it would run normally.
You'll be hardressed to get 6k SPS in
some of these libraries.
Okay, so this does actually work.
And um
it's a little unstable, but it does seem
to actually
Now this is the go get fresh data from
the SIMS
angle.
couldn't get my robot arm grabber to
work. Never implemented friction.
This weird. This is so much worse, isn't
it?
Oh, you know what?
I'm stupid.
Not just stupid.
Wait, am I?
Oh, isn't this the same
for rewards?
Do I have this offset?
No, I don't. Right.
Same way data gets collected normally.
but I need to make sure I have this set.
I mean, technically, I can test it as is
here
just to see.
So I mean this obviously is not going to
do Jack, right? Because the world model
is not being trained.
Okay. So, this is
all fine.
Is there room for RL?
Oh, wait. Hang on. I missed a couple
messages. Let me look.
We know that given enough similarities
between tasking and pharmacist some form
of generalized learning is there room
for RL helping encourage this behavior
can't a way to conceive of this as an
interaction problem
enough similarities between task and
environments
you can do multitask RL I don't know if
that's what you're asking
generally you Want some smooth way of
presenting the tasks like some smoothly
parameterized collection.
Ah, that type of stuff is tricky.
Like maybe
a lot of these questions are just not
going to be answered until we have our
base reinforcement learning better than
it is now, frankly.
We were We will get there. I'm making
progress. It's just hard.
So
here is the um
new idea on this.
So
very difficult to even learn from real
data with this, huh?
Maybe this is just the thing that we
need to um
to deal with first, right?
urgent properties.
Yeah, definitely.
I mean, that's not even like a do you
believe that's just been proven.
I have the
corn. I had this right.
Is there multiple
like multiple potential reasons
Need to get some faster
confirmation Here.
He's reasonably well, right?
quickly.
Started learning hard to keep stable. It
looks like
takes like 30 million to even start
learning.
Okay. So, we've managed to get it to be
more docks,
right?
I mean people like I keep providing more
of it though
like this literally.
I'm not sure what else to do because if
you follow this guide that I have
like this will literally teach you
everything from I don't know like I
don't know RL at all to I am productive
contributor to cutting edge research and
can crush tons of different
applications.
Like this has a lot of information and
links you to basically everything you
need.
Well, like the other thing is just
there's an expectation mismatch because
people expect like
eye torch style references and that's
just not how Puffer Lib is built.
It's not like this collection of little
modules.
Like there's a lot of stuff I have to
split my time. The UX matters a lot to
me.
Um but like there are core algorithmic
things that I still need to do. Finally
relearning C. You know, I actually I
wrote Python for 10 years um and not
much else because my undergrad systems
course put me so so off of C and
low-level programming in general. I
thought it was just like a complete
stupid waste of time. And it turns out I
just had the worst professor ever.
gave me a horrible impression of um
systems and systems programmers.
Okay. So, this is actually quite good.
Now if we swap
we have a faster version.
Doesn't do anything yet.
Now, this wood, you would expect this to
actually kind of work.
It's got the clamps. It's got
everything.
Oh, well, cartpole's got um it's like
not optimized for this at all, right?
Like even if it works like cartpole is
not indicative of anything. It's like
too stupid of a problem.
Like anything solves cartpole.
Breakout is I think the simplest
meaningful problem.
arguably Pong, but Pong's a little too
simple
The world model looks fine to me.
So then I I suppose the question is like
why
doesn't just need to be like super
aggressively optimized or something
weird, right?
Now we need I need to spend my time on
the uh algorithms. There's no puffer
merch. Now
thing is so so obnoxious though.
Super obnoxious.
things work.
I mean, if you just see how ridiculous
this data is, a lot of these methods,
to be clear, like the thing I'm doing
now is if anything in world modeling
whatsoever works, it should be this.
And I'm still having this much trouble
literally getting it to do anything.
Anything on a at least not totally
trivial problem. I'm sure this would
work on carpole.
All right, I got to go get ready for my
meeting in five, folks. Uh, I will be
back. I should be back afterwards. We're
going to keep working on this stuff. Um,
this should be very close to a working
system if anything is. So,
it's possible we get something today.
For folks watching, be back in a bit.
But in the meantime, puffer.ai for all
the things. Star the repo, join Discord,
follow X, all that helps out a lot. It's
a good way to keep in uh keep in touch,
stay involved with the project, all
that. Back in a bit.